# essays
Banks vs Credit Card Processors

There is a bug in the financial industry, and it exists because banks are different from credit card companies. Both however, are necessary. For example, it is the bank’s responsibility to block a charge, but it is the credit card company’s responsibility to block the merchant (those are two different things). Because of this, it is possible for a merchant to still mischarge a customer after the the bank blocks the charge. This is because all that the merchant has to do to successful re-charge the customer is change the purchase description. Naturally, this was a surprise to hear because this division of concepts made no sense. However, it becamse clear in time, but not with out a second phone call, and that is less preferable to only needing one.

For a little back story, the occasion was my discovery that a scammer had tricked me into signing up for a worthless subscription. That it was a subscription made the situation more complex.  Over the course of my phone calls, it became clear that the meaning of ‘merchant’ depended on the person talking with me over the phone. For bankers, was a row on the balance sheet, and for the credit card representatives, it was some sort of an established relationship, or maybe it was just the metadata. Because of this distinction, the banks can only do so much, so credit card company has to step in as well. 

This time around, it didn’t that the credit card company knew this. For instance, my inquiry got redirected three times between the two entities, and during the calls, there appeared to be no direct knowledge of this distinction between them. After all was said and done, the only person who knew about it was the first banking representative. That was even interesting in itself because he gave me valuable knowledge. Yes, it is true that bank and cc companies (also called ‘processors’ I have learned) are distinctly different, and for important reasons. It was surprising that this particular fact about the banking industry had escaped my own understanding for so long, along with many others, I am sure.

Thanfully, everything was taken care of; the banks handled the communication with the payment processor. If there was some way to have avoided all of that confusion, then here is a great business opportunity. 


Machines

Machines are much more than contraptions made of steel and silicon. In fact, they are entire companies. A better definition is: a system that produces something reliably. Under this definition, humans can be part of the machine too. As such, my human body and mind are part of a machine, and in exchange for it plugging into the machine, out comes money. With that money, it can enjoy the fruits of other machines, and around the world goes. 

It shocked me to realize this. Naturally, it was during my first job that made ‘real’ money. Now of course, ‘real’ money is meant to mean money that goes beyond the bare subsistence. With a bunch of extra money, suddenly there was the requirement to make some decisions about what to do with that money, and that prompted all of these questions about the meaning of civilization. At this point, the choices are either to spend it or save it, and what most people do is save it for the future when they are old and no longer able to work.

It really made me wonder about the point of having a body in the first place. After all, I should be able to go to work without having to do anything…if there is the sufficient amount of machinery to read my thoughts. This line of thinking, however is extremely depressing because it turns a human being into a battery. This is not what I want to be, ever ever ever.

Still, I feel like one at times, probably because I see the point of my life being to help others. After all, that is the whole point of these machines: to enable others to achieve their dreams. In the case of my first job, those dreams were of cooking fine food. My job existed to make sure that people had high quality cookware for that express purpose. So, humans definitely cannot be reduced to a battery. That is, a human cannot be both a battery and a fine chef at the same time. Realizing this, I knew I was in a contradiction. 

The question remains of what is to be done with that extra money? One idea was to embark on some selfish idea, like a recording project, but then leaves the person right where they were. Or, perhaps not. Maybe that recording project is the window to something brand new and unexplored…if people listen to it. At the very least, there has to be some value in spending the money, because that is why money is spent. 

So right now, it all just sits in that portfolio at the advice of my (very successful) grandfather. Let it sit there and accumulate until it makes sense to retire. Yet, it is hard to even determine the meaning of that phrase. Probably, it means the age where it is better to just sit around and judge others. It would be nice if someone hired the person to do it, but it may as well be from one’s front porch, if nothing else. 
